[JUNA]
Your Majesty?
It's me, Juna Doma.
[SOUMA]
Juna? Come in.
[JUNA]
Please, excuse me.
I spoke with
the princess earlier.
She said you had not
been sleeping lately.
Don't get me wrong,
my body wants to,
but my mind's too active
going over things
to let me shut my eyes.
Would you lie down?
Just lie back for me, please.
You really need
to get some rest.
I realize you don't like
showing any vulnerability,
but I am on your side.
I've noticed how you
do everything you can
to avoid looking miserable
in front of the princess.
And the tremendous effort
you put into appearing
strong for her.
But sire, when it gets
to be too much,
please call on me.
You've nothing to fear.
If the princess is responsible
for drawing out your strength,
then I'll be the one who
conceals your weakness.
[CASTOR] If we plan to act
before opinion tips in Souma's
favor, is now not the time?
Then I assume you're still
planning on rebelling
against the king, Castor?
Absolutely! I could care
less if he's a hero!
And what about you?
You disliked the king,
which is why you refused
his request for assistance,
remember?
What comes first for me,
above all else,
is the peace and safety
of Lagoon City.
We're acting as though
our neighboring countries
aren't waiting for their
opportunity to strike.
Yet here we are quarreling.
Preposterous.
I assume you mean Amidonia.
What about their offer:
"If you wish to dethrone
the false king,
we stand ready to
send reinforcements."
I'm sure they sent the same
offer to the king, as well.
Obviously, they're hoping
we'll bring each other down.
Care to tell us what you
have in mind, Georg?
Be specific.
For one who claims to
be loyal to this country,
some might see your
decision to take action
against its new
ruler as peculiar.
Questions of the king's
legitimacy aside, his reign
has been sound.
Why would you deliberately
try to make waves?
I have determined that he cannot
govern this nation effectively.
End of story.
[EXCEL]
And why is that?
He has overcome a number
of crises already.
What do you find unsatisfactory?
[GEORG] He cast aside years
of tradition without even
a thought!
This upstart king was summoned
here from a different world.
Thus, he does not hesitate
to abandon our customs,
but discards what
he finds inefficient,
such as our history and
traditions, or am I mistaken?
[EXCEL]
Well, no, b‐‐
He did away with officials
who served the kingdom
faithfully for many years.
Those who have ill will
towards him will be
effective pawns
in his overthrow.
[EXCEL] So that you may ascend
to the throne yourself?
That is Duke Carmine.
He has no intent
to usurp the throne.
Clearly. After the usurper
is driven out,
I will have King Albert
reclaim the crown
and serve him again.
Castor, in case anything
should happen to you,
it'd be prudent to sever ties
with Accela, Carla, and Carl.
[CASTOR] You're implying
I'll be bested by that
lightweight child?
If you stand against the king,
you should make preparations
in case things don't turn
out the way you had hoped.
[EXCEL]
Carla?
I've made my choice!
If Father is committed
to fighting,
I will stand beside
him in battle!
You will not!
Do you intend to turn traitor
at such a young age?
After deposing King Albert
and trying to violate
my friend Liscia, Souma cannot
be allowed to continue ruling!
[EXCEL] You misunderstand the
situation! King Souma‐‐
You needn't be concerned for me.
I, Carla, daughter of House
Vargas, will end his reign!
[JULIUS]
What do you have there, Father?
A message from Georg Carmine.
It seems he's finally
taking a stand.
About time he got off
his hindquarters.
The years have taken their toll.
Back in his prime, the Duke
would never have been
foolish enough to
accept any invitation
that we extended to him.
[JULIUS]
That's for certain.
[GAIUS] War has been declared,
and so we shall act.
Reinforcements will be
sent to the kingdom.
[JULIUS] And to whom will
we be sending them?
[GAIUS]
Whom, you ask?
Why, to King Souma against
the Three Dukedoms,
and we'll send the
Three Dukedoms troops
to overthrow him, of course.
You really are
the worst, father.
[ROROA sighs]
Good grief. What am I going
to do with that old man
and my dumb brother?
As if Amidonia's strength
wasn't meager enough,
now they want to stretch
it even thinner!
Pardon me, best not
to speak of such things
so blithely, Roroa.
On the other hand, the Elfrieden
Kingdom has it nice.
A large population means tons
and tons of tax money
and operational capital.
Seriously, though.
How can I not be envious
of our neighbor's coffers?
Hold on.
[HAKUYA] As the documents state,
we can look forward to
a plentiful harvest this fall.
I think it's fair to say the
crisis with the food shortage
has been largely remedied.
That's a relief to hear.
Now that we've resolved that,
we can move on to the next step.
So, then, we really have
to go through with it?
I see it weighs on you.
[SOUMA] Well, yeah. I understand
that it's necessary,
but still.
I mean, what other
choice do we have?
In Machiavelli's The Prince,
the famous political thinker
says the following:
[MACHIAVELLI] If a prince
must turn to acts of cruelty,
then his position,
even in peaceful times,
is in jeopardy.
However, some rulers,
despite the length and
breadth of their cruelty,
live out long lives
in tranquility,
staving off domestic
uprisings and the threat
from external enemies.
The difference depends entirely
on whether the ruler's
"cruelties" are used
effectively or poorly.
[SOUMA] They should be
viewed as a sword.
A last resort to cut
through all obstacles.
But if he relies too heavily
upon the blade,
then as the proverb goes,
"live by the sword,
die by the sword."
As I've said before,
I've made the determination
your plan will be one
of these "cruelties."
Indeed, I also remember
you saying that
if we must strike, then it
should be one decisive blow.
[SOUMA'S GRANDFATHER]
One of these days, I'll go off
and join your grandma.
When that day comes,
you'll be without a family.
Build your own, and once you
have them by your side,
no matter what comes your way,
you have to keep them safe,
you understand?
[SOUMA]
Now's the time!
Let our subjugation begin!
Now's our time!
Assemble the troops!
As soon as Duke Carmine
begins his revolt,
we will commence our invasion
of the Elfrieden Kingdom!
Our target is the grain belt
in the southwest!
Fifty years ago, our land was
stolen from our forefathers.
It's time we reclaimed it!
[COLBERT]
A moment, please! If I may.
[GAIUS]
What is it, Colbert?
[COLBERT]
If I may humbly say so,
please reconsider invading
Elfrieden, Your Majesty.
If you begin a war right now,
our people will starve.
You domestic affairs ministers
always say the same thing.
"Now is not the time, focus
on matters at home."
And what do you have
to show for it?
Ever since Elfrieden's new king
ascended to the throne,
their national strength has
made a significant comeback!
I beg you to listen to reason.
If you enter into Elfrieden,
our nation will be open
to censure from all of
the other countries!
Don't forget, we are signatories
under the empire's
Declaration of Mankind's
Common Front
Against the Demon Race!
The Mankind Declaration, huh?
[SOUMA]
Headed by the Gran Chaos Empire,
the Declaration of Mankind's
Common Front
Against the Demon Race,
or "Mankind Declaration"
for short,
is the decree from the empire,
which has the largest
territory and military.
It's an international
treaty that states owing
to the expansion of the
Demon Lord's Domain
all conflicts between mankind
must come to an immediate halt.
In order to keep the demons
from encroaching
any farther south,
mankind must work together,
as a unified force to
push the enemy back.
Its main points consist of
the following three articles:
Of the three, the first
article states that,
should there be any changes
within mankind's borders
as a result of conflict,
they will not be recognized.
If we invade Elfrieden, we will
be courting intervention
from the empire and
our allies, Your Majesty!
I'm begging you to reconsider!
You're worrying over
trivial matters, Colbert.
Unlike our great nation,
Elfrieden chose not to sign
the Mankind Declaration.
Julius, sire,
that's just sophistry!
You should know when
it comes to diplomacy,
only signed treaties
carry any weight.
‐‐But sire!
‐‐Enough, you fool!
As of this moment, you are
removed from your position
as finance minister!
Oh, yoo‐hoo, Mister Colbert!
Why the glum expression
on such a beautiful day?
Princess!
[ROROA] By the looks of that
bruise, you and my old man
must have had a
difference of opinion.
Allow me to assure you,
I'm in perfect health
and spirits, Princess.
Good to hear.
Then go get ready to leave.
[COLBERT]
Huh? I beg your pardon?
Just what exactly are
you planning to do?
Isn't it obvious?
We're both going to
drop out of sight.
Sebastian's already gathering
everything we need
for the trip.
So, for now, just come with me.
Hey!
[LISCIA]
What is it, Souma?
I'm about to meet with
the Three Dukes.
But before I do,
there's something I need
to ask you, Liscia.
I think this is the first time
we've met face‐to‐face.
Dukes, I am Souma Kazuya,
the interim king,
to whom King Albert, the
previous ruler of Elfrieden,
yielded the throne.
Duke Castor Vargas,
general over the air force.
At last, I may greet
our new king.
It's a pleasure.
I am Excel Walter, Your Majesty.
As you know, I'm Duke Georg
Carmine, Army General.
Very well.
I am now issuing my ultimatum
to the Three Dukedoms.
If you three continue
to disobey my orders,
then I will have no choice but
to recognize you as traitors.
I'd like to hear your
thoughts on the matter.
[EXCEL] And you will,
but first a question.
[SOUMA]
Please, go ahead.
Kindly inform us what
you intend on doing
with the Three Duchies.
[SOUMA] If you do as I command,
I have no intention
of taking action
against your territories.
What about our armed forces?
I'll merge your forces into
the Forbidden Army,
creating a unified military.
In doing so, it will abolish
your previous right
to maintain armed forces
within the Three Duchies.
Then it is just as I thought.
Even as an outsider,
you should know
what sort of chaos disbanding
our armies will allow!
When a despot becomes king
and asserts racial supremacy,
the other races will face
oppression under his rule.
To prevent this,
our forefathers formed
the three ducal armies,
checks and balances.
This allows the Dukes to
support as well as watch over
the royal family, and,
if it becomes necessary,
to remove a tyrant should
he ascend the throne.
What are your intentions?
To overturn the entire system?
It served the nation well
during times of peace,
but the state of this world
is unstable now.
The Principality of Amidonia
wants vengeance against us,
and the Republic of Turgis
aims to expand northward.
They seek an opening
to claim our territory.
And don't forget the
Nine‐Headed Dragon
Archipelago Union and
their relentless disputes
over fishing rights.
During times of strife,
having a military
with multiple command
structures is futile.
Now is the time to
centralize our power.
And what if that consolidated
power becomes corrupt?
If that happens,
then you're free to come
and claim my head!
[EXCEL] Before we continue,
there's one more thing
I'd like to ask.
I hear talk that you
are constructing a new
gulf coast city, Your Majesty.
Once construction is complete,
what is to become
of Lagoon City?
[SOUMA] Venetinova. I plan for
it be used as a port of trade
as well as a tourist spot.
As for Lagoon City, it will
likely continue to serve
as our main naval port.
I am greatly relieved
to hear that, my king.
As of this moment,
I, Excel Walter,
along with the Elfrieden
Kingdom's Navy,
place ourselves under
Your Majesty's command.
[SOUMA] I am grateful
for your wise decision.
I look forward to working
together for the sake
of the kingdom.
The feeling is mutual, sire.
Now, Duke Vargas,
will you extend your
hand and help me
for the good of our kingdom?
Unfortunately,
I have to decline.
I have defended Elfrieden.
Not only under Albert, but the
previous two generations
of kings.
On that note, perhaps
you'd care to explain
why King Albert
abdicated the throne
without so much as a word
to the three of us.
Actually...
I'd like to know that, too.
Princess Liscia.
Do you know the reason why?
I am sorry, my father insists
I stay out of such things
to avoid suspicion.
But if he were here,
he would tell you Souma
is your king now.
Is that so?
Here is my answer: I cannot
accept you as our king
after all.
But Duke Vargas!
[CASTOR] I will instead
side with Duke Carmine.
I see. And is that
your final decision?
[CASTOR] Yes. But it's one
I reached on my own.
Duke Carmine will have
my support as well as
100 members from the
Red Dragon City knights.
The rest of the air force
will not be mustered
and will continue
to remain neutral.
Very well.
[HAKUYA] Is Duke Vargas's
decision in consideration
of his possible defeat?
How can this be?
[SOUMA] Now then, General of
the Army, Georg Carmine.
I don't need to ask whether
or not you'll side with me.
The moment you gave
shelter to nobles
who were guilty of
corruption, it was evident
that you had no intention
of following me.
So I would ask you one thing:
What is it that drove you
to take this stance?
It's my pride as a warrior.
After living for more
than 55 years,
my strength may have declined,
but I've gained an
extraordinary opportunity.
Through my experience,
I'll determine Elfrieden's fate.
But that's‐‐ You're being
a complete fool!
Naturally.
One cannot be a warrior
without being a fool.
And you will bear witness
to the way that I live my life.
Are you sure you don't
mean the way you'll die?
They are the same thing.
Those who aim to live die,
and those who desire
death live on.
That is the way of the warrior.
You're just an old, rotten
trunk I need to step over.
Though I may be rotting, I am a
great tree with strong roots.
It makes no difference!
Georg Carmine, Castor Vargas,
I've one thing left to say:
before we head into battle,
I'd like to make a proposal.
I doubt any of us want
the fighting to drag on,
or for it to involve innocent
citizens of this kingdom,
am I correct?
So, I'd like to establish
a rule where if one of us
kills or captures the other, the
forces under their command
will immediately
switch allegiances.
I agree.
If somehow I am defeated,
take good care of my
men who survive me.
And with that,
I will excuse myself.
Please, wait!
[GEORG]
Princess Liscia.
Duke Carmine, watch.
Now you've witnessed my resolve.
I have chosen to stand
alongside Souma.
Ah.
I've seen your courage, and I
acknowledge it, Princess.
I'm sorry.
I wasn't able to
change Castor's mind.
There was nothing you could do.
He made his choice and must
face the consequences.
Tell me, is she there
with you right now?
Juna? You're requested.
[JUNA]
You called for me, Your Majesty?
[SOUMA] I wanted to thank
you for everything, Juna.
Because of your connection
with Duchess Walter,
we were able to resolve
our differences
without going to war.
I only did as ordered and
don't deserve your praise.
Sending Juna to spy
on you was deceitful,
but I needed to show
caution and care‐‐
for that you have my apologies.
It's all right.
If you hadn't, I doubt I'd
have you on my side now.
[LISCIA]
Souma.
Don't forget,
we have your back, too.